docs: improve contributing and pull request documentation (#5387)
adobe/spectrum-web-components: PULL_REQUESTS.md

Reviewer: Could we add documentation here about linking github issues to PRs so that they automatically close? Specifically, using Github's syntax (you can't just link to the issue, you have to say that it "addresses" it, "fixes" it, or whatever...) There's docs about it I don't have on hand!

Author: Check the comment below

        -   [Conventional Commits](#conventional-commits)
    -   [Pull Request Template](#pull-request-template)
    -   [Labels and Their Meanings](#labels-and-their-meanings)
    -   [Pull Request Review Process](#pull-request-review-process)
        -   [Review Timing](#review-timing)
        -   [Review Expectations](#review-expectations)
        -   [Review Etiquette](#review-etiquette)
            -   [For Reviewers](#for-reviewers)
            -   [For PR Authors](#for-pr-authors)
            -   [Resolving Disagreements](#resolving-disagreements)
    -   [Merge Criteria](#merge-criteria)
    -   [Specific Requirements by Element Type](#specific-requirements-by-element-type)
        -   [New Components](#new-components)
            -   [Documentation](#documentation)
            -   [API Documentation](#api-documentation)
            -   [Technical Requirements](#technical-requirements)

## Pull Request Creation

### Branch Naming

We use a straightforward branch naming convention:

-   `[username]/[short-description]` (e.g., `alex/fix-dropdown-bug`)
-   If referencing a known issue, incorporate the issue number (e.g., `alex/123-fix-dropdown-bug`)

> ### Changeset Requirements

Author: agreed on this! @nikkimk doc can be linked here

For PRs that add or update a component:

-   Must include a changeset to trigger the release train and update the CHANGELOG
-   Changeset type should be one of:
    -   `patch` - for bug fixes only
    -   `minor` - for new components or new APIs in an existing component
    -   `major` - for breaking changes to a component or public library API

### Conventional Commits

> We follow the Conventional Commits standard to make change tracking predictable and automate versioning:

Author: love this committing it

Format: `type(component?): subject`

The component is optional but should reference the package you are updating.

Types include:

-   `feat`: New features or enhancements
-   `fix`: Bug fixes
-   `docs`: Documentation changes
-   `style`: Formatting, linting (not CSS changes)
-   `chore`: Build tooling, repo management, dependency updates
-   `perf`: Performance improvements
-   `test`: Adding or updating tests

Examples:

-   `feat(sp-card): add shadow styles for theme consistency`
-   `fix(sp-action-menu): correct arrow key navigation in nested menus`
-   `docs: clarify how to submit bug reports`

For breaking changes, add a `!` after the type/scope:

-   `feat(sp-button)!: change API for icon placement`

## Pull Request Template

When creating a pull request, you'll be presented with our template. Complete all sections to the best of your ability, including:

-   Description of the changes

> -   Related issues (using proper GitHub keywords to auto-close issues)

Author: @najikahalsema do you want more here? Also i physically added `fixes` to the PR template itself
```suggestion
-   Related issues (using proper GitHub keywords to auto-close issues i.e. `fixes`, `resolves`, or `closes`)
```

Reviewer: I think that should be good. Maybe we add a link to the docs on "github keywords"? here's the link: 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5bf3d552-9b6d-4780-a156-25ad3ea988df)

> -   Type of change in the PR title (bug fix, feature, breaking change)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Type of change in the PR title (bug fix, feature, breaking change)
-   Steps you took to test your changes that reviewers can follow to also test them
```

-   Checklist of items completed
-   Screenshots/videos for visual changes
-   Testing information

Incomplete templates will delay the review process.

## Labels and Their Meanings

-   `ready-for-review`: PR is ready for maintainer review
-   `work-in-progress`: PR is still being worked on, not ready for review
-   `needs-changes`: PR requires changes based on review feedback
-   `needs-tests`: PR is missing necessary tests
-   `needs-docs`: PR requires documentation updates

> -   `needs-self-review`: PR requires that the author does a self-review of code to answer preliminary questions

Author: my thought was if a reviewer opens a PR and the author hasnt done their self review this is a way to flag it... open to removing it if its overkill

-   `needs-style-review`: PR needs to be checked by CSS and/or Design
-   `breaking-change`: PR contains changes that break backward compatibility
-   `help-wanted`: Extra attention is needed on this PR
-   `on-hold`: PR is blocked and/or needs more discussion.
-   `Spectrum CSS`: Contains a version bump of Spectrum CSS and will require a review by CSS expert
-   `Component: [Name]`: PR effects this component

> 

Author: @castastrophe how does this sound, feel free to modify the language

Author: This was supposed to be associated with `blocker`

Apply labels promptly to help maintainers prioritize and manage the review queue.

## Pull Request Review Process

### Review Timing

-   Maintainers aim to review PRs within 2 business days

> -   If your PR hasn't received attention after 3 business days, feel free to ping the team in the PR comments

Author: took out the specific language and generalized it. we can update this when we have an SLA

### Review Expectations

Reviewers will check for:

1. Adherence to code style and component patterns
2. Proper test coverage
3. Documentation completeness
4. Accessibility compliance
5. Visual regression test coverage
6. Performance considerations

### Review Etiquette

The code review process should be constructive, respectful, and focused on improvement. Both reviewers and PR authors should follow these guidelines:

#### For Reviewers

> -   **Be Specific and Constructive**: Provide clear, actionable feedback rather than vague criticisms. Explain why a change is needed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-   **Be specific and constructive**: By providing clear, actionable feedback and explaining why a change is needed, we help contributors make updates to their code more quickly and accurately.
```

> -   **Prioritize Issues**: Focus on important issues first (architecture, functionality, performance) before minor stylistic concerns.

Reviewer 3: How can we reword some of these to focus on the positive outcomes instead of the negative past that might have led to these guidelines being formed?

> -   **Ask Questions**: When something isn't clear, ask questions rather than making assumptions about intent.

Reviewer 3: Can we bump this to the top? It seems like a focus of our team on being curious and I'd love us to emphasize that value in our docs as well.

> -   **Ask Questions**: When something isn't clear, ask questions rather than making assumptions about intent.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-   **Ask Questions**: When something isn't clear, start with asking questions. We don't assume intent or meaning and focus instead on curiosity and clarification.
```

> -   **Suggest Alternatives**: When pointing out issues, suggest possible solutions or approaches. Leverage the code suggestions feature to streamline applying feedback for the author.

Reviewer 3: Can we connect this to the be specific and constructive heading? They seem intrinsically related.

Author: what if it was sequential? one after the other. i wanted to keep the bullets short and concise

> -   **Recognize Good Work**: Acknowledge well-written code and good design decisions. Positive reinforcement is valuable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-   **Celebrate good work**: By acknowledging well-written code and good design decisions, we celebrate our contributors and the hard work they put in. Positive reinforcement is valued and makes for a fun and engaging project!
```

> -   **Remember Context**: Consider the PR author's experience level and the scope of changes when providing feedback.

Reviewer 3: I like this generally but it's kind of an unknowable factor in code reviews with non-team contributors. What does this advice look like in practice?

-   **Be Timely**: Complete reviews promptly to avoid blocking progress.

> -   **Avoid Nitpicking**: Focus on meaningful improvements rather than personal style preferences that don't violate project standards. Prepend comments with `nit:` to denote its non-blocking feedback.

Reviewer 3: How can we reword this to focus on the positive outcome we're wanting?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **Avoid Nitpicking**: Focus on meaningful improvements rather than personal style preferences that don't violate project standards. Prepend comments with `nit:` to denote it's non-blocking feedback.
```

nit: apostrophe 😉

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   **Avoid Nitpicking**: Focus on meaningful improvements rather than personal style preferences that don't violate project standards. Prepend comments with `nit:` to denote that it is non-blocking feedback.
```

> -   **Use Changes Requested Sparingly**: Changes Requested review status should only be used in instances where a bug or regression is still present in the PR.

Reviewer 2: Maybe move this one above nit-picking

-   **Document Decisions**: Record the reasoning behind significant technical decisions for future reference.

Remember that code reviews are a collaborative process aimed at improving code quality, knowledge sharing, and maintaining project standards. Approaching reviews with empathy and professionalism benefits everyone involved.

## Merge Criteria

A PR is ready to merge when:

1. It has received approval from two maintainers
2. All CI checks are passing
    - Unit tests passing
    - Integration tests passing
    - Visual regression tests passing (**VRT golden images should not be updated until an approver confirms they look good**)
    - Linting checks passing
3. All requested changes have been addressed
4. PR follows conventional commit standards
5. Includes proper changeset (when applicable)
6. Documentation has been updated as needed

## Specific Requirements by Element Type

### New Components

When creating or reviewing new components, ensure:

#### Documentation

-   README contains a clear description and minimal example
-   Inline documentation for all public APIs

> -   Accessibility documentation that aligns with WCAG patterns

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Accessibility documentation that aligns with WCAG patterns

See [Documenting a component](https://opensource.adobe.com/spectrum-web-components/guides/adding-component/#documenting-the-component) for more information on our documentation standards and structure.
```

> #### API Documentation

Reviewer 2: Should we refer back to JSDoc here?
